Reviewer #1: This is an interesting manuscript that aims to identify "causal" relationships" for COVID-19 transmission based on a DAG analysis and empirical data from other studies for variable selection.

The DAG analysis is a multivariate analysis to select a subset of variables that are correlated from a large number of candidates. The first select the sets of variables that are associated with the outcome using DAG analysis and then put them into the regression. The DAG analysis returns different sets of variables, using different selection criterion ( for example, the most parsimonious set or the most variation explained ). So the authors assumedly use R-squared to select the final sets of variables in the regression model.

The challenge I have here (and having reviewed this as well with our statistical team) is that the claims of causal relationships are not convincing, even if they identify associative relationships that other studies have also found.

Specifically:


1) The model does not address the nonlinearity of variables (such as temperature); other studies have found that temperature has a u-shaped effect at low and high temperatures. Humidity effects may also be nonlinear. The assumption of non-linearity on continuous variables needs to be considered.

2) There are no tests for multi-collinearity that are presented, which presents significant concerns for over-fitting the model. Temperature and humidity are an example here. So is the mobility data.

2) Feels like they cherry-pick the variables of interest in the end? Not sure how they arrived at the final variable list for causal effects. Whey were the restrictions not included in that analysis?

3) The term “causal analysis” is a bit strong for what they have done here. The basis of the work is the proposed DAG (Figure 1), but the diagram was constructed from other association studies. Other than the DAG analysis, they did not do anything to ensure the results are “causal relationship”. So I am not convinced that the analysis or results are causal.How do you avoid over-fitting the model or including mediating variables in the analysis?

5) What about interaction terms? For example, residential mobility and colder weather? Or rain? These relationships are not simply a straightforward multivariable model.

6) The most interesting terms in their model were the interventions (restrictions) themselves, yet they were dropped from the model. No discussion is really pursued on that. Why were public health interventions removed?